Team Organization Charter
Team Goals
1. Develop a user-friendly hands-free device that is both straightforward in operation and requires minimal maintenance.
2. Utilize sustainable designs and materials to create an environmentally-friendly product.
3. Develop a product that achieves a positive reception with our target audience.
4. Aim to create a project that serves as a valuable addition to each team member's portfolio.
5. Cultivate a positive work environment conducive to building meaningful connections.
6. Working together efficiently as a team and communicating effectively so we can be prepared to work in real world situations with people in a work environment.
7. Create a working environment where not only are we comfortable asking each other for help but where we are also able to learn from each other. 
Product Mission Statement
The mission of our product is to provide individuals and communities with reliable, real-time weather information. Our product aims to empower users by offering a compact, user-friendly, accessible solution that delivers accurate meteorological data, fostering informed decision-making for outdoor activities, agriculture, emergency preparedness, and more. Through innovative technology and a commitment to eco-friendly technology, our mission is to enhance accessibility to crucial weather insights, promoting safety, efficiency, and a deeper understanding of the natural environment. We believe our product can make a positive impact on the world around us and impact the decision making of its users.
Communication Channels 
The Table 1 below outlines the various ways information is exchanged and interactions occur within a given context.
Name 
	First Choice of Communication
	Second Choice of Communication
	Third Choice of Communication
	Joaquin Jimenez 
	Text Message
	Discord
	Email
	Abner Oaxaca
	Text Message
	Discord
	Email
	Panagiotis Levendis
	Text Message 
	Discord
	Email
	Enyinnaya Onyenso
	Text Message
	Discord
	Email
	Table 1: Team Members Communication Modes
Communication Procedures
We will communicate via Text Message, Discord, Email. Text messages would be to communicate faster and quick questions (e.g., “where are we at with the assignment?”, “We should meet this day?”). With Discord we would like to make a call/video meeting for any team assignment/project stuff, share ideas, even help with homework, etc. And email will be a last resort of communication.


Handling instructor correspondence will be a shared responsibility within the team. We will designate a point of contact for direct communication with the instructor, ensuring a streamlined and consistent approach. Updates and relevant information will be promptly communicated back to the group through regular team meetings or a designated communication channel to keep everyone informed and aligned.
Meeting Schedule 
Table 2 insights into the availability of each team member and the time everyone can meet.
  
Table 2: Team’s Availability and Contact Information
Meeting Coordination
The group plans to utilize a shared calendar as a method of coordination. Weekly reminders and updates will be communicated to the team to address any necessary accommodations. Additionally, the group prefers to conduct Discord calls for discussions.
Roles and Responsibilities 
Table 3 Identifies the role and responsibilities each team member is going to meet.
Roles
	Duties 
	Meeting Leader: Panagiotis Levendis 
	Schedules team meetings, creates and distributes an agenda for each meeting, and runs each meeting
	Meeting Recorder: Joaquin Jimenez
	Takes minutes of each team meeting, including attendance, and records action items and to whom they are assigned
	Assignment Leader: Abner Oaxaca
	Coordinates the team's work on a given assignment to Canvas before the due date
	Project Monitor: Enyinnaya Onyenso
	Tracks the team's progress relative to the project schedule (Gantt chart) and keeps team members apprised of deadlines and project status
	Table 3: Project Roles and Duties


* As a team we will decide if project roles need to be changed after each checkpoint.


* We will decide who is assigned to each role depending on individual experiences and technical knowledge, for the best assignment requirements.


* Checkinging in on each other to make sure everyone is making progress and understands the assignments and project.


* We will be able to identify any role or responsibility changes based on communication, if anyone is struggling with a specific responsibility we will try to help as a team but if we need to adjust we will try to distribute work evenly between group members. 


* Team activities and milestones will be tracked using the assignments and checkpoints as larger beacons of progress, while internal milestones and goals will be checked through our communication routes.


* We will assign technical responsibilities by who has the most knowledge and experience with the task, otherwise by volunteering.


Team Coordination and Accountability
Send a text message to the group to confirm that the task is nearing completion, ensuring that everyone is aware. Encourage peer checking or double-checking to catch any potential omissions. It is crucial to verify that each team member possesses the necessary knowledge and skills for their respective assignments. In case of any gaps, foster discussions among team members to enhance, support, and adjust task assignments as needed, optimizing the collective capabilities of the team. After an assignment is graded, share the received feedback with others and engage in discussions on areas of improvement, reflecting on what could have been done differently to enhance future assignments.


Ensuring improvement in the future hinges on addressing any missed contributions, assignments, or actions; holding team members accountable to the expectations in the charter is paramount for maintaining a high standard of performance. Early recognition of underperforming team members allows for focused collaborative efforts to facilitate improvement.
Conflict Recognition and Resolution
As a team, we will proactively address differences of opinion by openly recognizing and acknowledging disagreements, understanding that controversy is a normal aspect of collaboration. Additionally, we commit to preventing conflicts of interest by clarifying project roles and responsibilities, resolving any conflicts internally, and establishing clear criteria for escalating issues to the instructor when necessary.
Signatures 
Panagiotis Levendis 
Abner Oaxaca
Enyinnaya Onyenso
Joaquin Jimenez